Razor burn refers to a rash or bumps
caused by shaving dry skin,
not using enough cream or gel,
or shaving too hard,
too fast or too close.
Shaving does not simply remove hair.
It also removes skin cells.
Hair may also be cut off
slightly below the skin’s surface,
especially if you shave
against the direction it’s growing
so that the razor catches and pulls
it away from the surface.
Shaving too hard or too close
causes tiny cuts or openings
that allow bacteria to enter.
When skin grows over the open hair shaft,
the hair cannot grow up and out
and instead grows down into the follicle.
Hair that is naturally curly
may kink around and grow into the skin
above or below the surface.
All of these can cause inflammation
and a buildup of dead white cells and bacteria.
The skin may be itchy or red
and small bumps may form.
These can look like pimples,
especially if the follicle becomes infected.